Added Conflicts Page (#407)
opengisch/QField-docs: documentation/reference/qfieldcloud/conflicts.en.md

---
title: Manage Conflicts
tx_slug: documentation_reference_qfieldcloud_manage_conflicts
---

## Understanding Conflicts in Data Synchronization

Conflicts occur when any of these conditions is met:

1) distinct users set the same attribute on the same feature to different values, and the second patch of changes arrives before the first is applied to the project;

> 2) a primary key is employed twice.

Reviewer: Did we check this is true?

Author: @suricactus I can confirm this

> Preventing, mitigating and resolving conflicts is crucial to maintaining data integrity in a healthy QGIS project. Here are some tips and tricks to do just that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While highly unlikely have conflicts, preventing, mitigating and resolving conflicts is important to maintain data integrity in a healthy QGIS project. Here are some tips and tricks to do just that.
```
Makes the language a bit softer.

### How to Avoid Conflicts?

1. **Unique "fid" Serial Numbers:**
   - When creating a feature, it is recommended to assign a unique "fid" serial number to each feature in the layers.
   - Use the expression "epoch(now())" (without the double quote) in the "fid" to generate a unique identifier per millisecond, reducing the possibility of duplicate "fid" numbers.

2. **Planning and Designation:**
   - For updating existing features based on field conditions, plan and designate the features each user will update.
   - Users should avoid changing the "fid" or identifier numbers.

### How to Resolve Conflicts?

- By default, QFieldCloud overwrites conflicts using a _last wins_ policy (the latest patch of changes to the attribute(s) involved in the conflict replaces all earlier patches of changes to these attributes). Alternatively, admins can set a project's conflict resolution policy to _manual_. Doing so will require the project manager to manually resolve conflicts, picking those to be applied to the project.

- When dealing with conflicts:
   - Navigate to the "Changes" section.

>    - Filter the changes with the "Not_applied" status.

Reviewer: @SeqLaz any chance you remmeber why it says "non_applied" here and not "conflict"?

Author: You are correct @suricactus  it should be with "Conflict" status.

Author: There the fix:
https://github.com/opengisch/QField-docs/pull/518

1) distinct users set the same attribute on the same feature to different values, and the second patch of changes arrives before the first is applied to the project;
2) a primary key is employed twice.

> While highly unlikely have conflicts, preventing, mitigating and resolving conflicts is important to maintain data integrity in a healthy QGIS project. Here are some tips and tricks to do just that.

Reviewer 2: This sentence still reads strange. What do we want to say with the first part?

Author: If the Overwrite conflicts is check but the second user pushed their changes and this is not applied this won't overwrite the conflicts

- By default, QFieldCloud overwrites conflicts using a _last wins_ policy (the latest patch of changes to the attribute(s) involved in the conflict replaces all earlier patches of changes to these attributes). Alternatively, admins can set a project's conflict resolution policy to _manual_. Doing so will require the project manager to manually resolve conflicts, picking those to be applied to the project.

- When dealing with conflicts:
   - Navigate to the "Changes" section.
   - Filter the changes with the "Not_applied" status.

>    - For each conflicted changes, select it and set the status to "Re-apply" from the "Action" dropdown menu, alternatively is all the new changes are in conflicts you can choose in the last conflicted change and select "Re-apply this and newer changes".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - For each conflicted change, select it and set the status to "Re-apply" from the "Action" dropdown menu. Alternatively is all the new changes are in conflicts you can choose in the last conflicted change and select "Re-apply this and newer changes".
```
```suggestion
   - For each conflicted changes, select it and set the status to "Re-apply" from the "Action" dropdown menu, alternatively, if all the new changes are in conflict you can choose the last conflicted change and select "Re-apply this and newer changes".
```

Grammatically checked. Contents ok too, @suricactus ?

Reviewer: Correct.
